**Rebate Items under 405.04 (405.04/00.00/01.00, 405.04/00.00/02.00, 405.04/00.00/04.00, 405.04/00.00/05.00, 405.04/00.00/06.00) for Goods Donated to Disabled Persons or for the Upliftment of Indigent Persons**
**Rebate Item 405.04/00.00/01.00**
**Description**
Goods (excluding motor vehicles) specially designed for use by persons with physical or mental defects
 **Specific Conditions**
1. Rebate item is subject to the production of a certificate from an official of the Resource and Rehabilitation for the Blind, Ramotswa Society for the Deaf, the Camphill Community Rankoramane for Mental Health, the National Council for the Physical Disabled in Botswana or the Botswana National Council Epilepsy League or a body which is affiliated to the Council or League concerned.
2. Goods under this rebate item are for the exclusive use of handicapped persons and;
3. Certificate should be endorsed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Industry that such or similar goods are not ordinarily nor satisfactorily made in Botswana.
**Rebate Item 405.04/00.00/02.00**
**Description**
Machines, implements and materials for use in the manufacture of goods by persons with physical or mental defects.
**Specific Conditions**
1. Rebate item is subject to the production of a certificate from an official of the Resource and Rehabilitation for the Blind, Ramotswa Society for the Deaf, the Camphill Community Rankoramane for Mental Health, the National Council for the Physical Disabled in Botswana or the Botswana National Council Epilepsy League or a body which is affiliated to the Council or League concerned.
2. Goods under this rebate item are for the exclusive use of handicapped persons and;
3. Certificate should be endorsed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Trade and Industry that such or similar goods are not ordinarily nor satisfactorily made in Botswana.
**Rebate Item 405.04/00.00/04.00**
**Description**
Goods (excluding clothing)
**Specific Conditions**
1. Goods should be forwarded unsolicited and free to any welfare organization registered in terms of the Societies Act Cap 18:01)
2. Goods should enter in terms of a specific permit issued by the Caretake Chief Executive Officer, Botswana Trade Commission, for distribution free of charge by such organization
**Rebate Item  405.04/00.00/05.00**
**Description**
Goods (excluding clothing)
**Specific Conditions**
1. Goods should be forwarded unsolicited and free to any welfare organization registered in terms of the Societies Act Cap 18:01)
2. Goods should enter in terms of a specific permit issued by the Caretake Chief Executive Officer, Botswana Trade Commission, for the official use by such organization
**Rebate Item 405.04/00.00/06.00
**Description**
Goods (excluding foodstuffs and clothing)
**Specific Conditions**
1. Goods should be forwarded free, as a donation, to any educational organization, hospital (including a clinic), welfare organization, religious organization, or sporting organization
2. Goods should enter in such quantities and under such conditions as the Caretaker Chief Executive Officer, Botswana Trade Commission, may allow by specific permit and the Caretaker Chief Executive Officer is satisfied that the issuing of such permit will not have a detrimental effect on local customs industry within the common customs area
3. Permits will be issued provided that the applicant and anybody responsible for the distribution have furnished an undertaking that:
4. such goods are for use by the organization or for free distribution;
5. such goods will not be sold, leased, hired or otherwise disposed of for gain without the duty which has been rebated being paid to the Commissioner; and
a)no donation or other counter-performance may be accepted by anybody in respect of such goods.
**General conditions**
1. Applications must be made prior to the shipment of the goods, as rebate permits will not be issued retrospectively. No applications will be accepted if submitted after the arrival of goods in Botswana.
2. Applicants should allow at least three (3) working days for the processing of applications and the issuing of permits.
3. Permits for the rebate items under 405.04 are valid per consignment and no extensions will be granted.
4. Applicant must submit a letter from the donor (gift certificate) confirming that the goods to be imported in terms of rebate items under 405.04 is bona fide unsolicited donations.
5. Applicant must submit a consignment copy/ bill of lading/ waybill copy and invoices.
6. A fee of P300.00 is required for the issuance of the rebate permit.
7. Applicant must submit written undertaking (application letter) indicating that the goods are imported for the purposes of cultural, educational, charitable, welfare or youth organizations.
8. Applicant must clearly stipulate Port of Entry.
9. Applicant must clearly explain the distribution infrastructure available including the manner in which the distribution takes place.
10. Proper records must be kept of the distribution of goods in such a manner the distribution of goods can be verified.
11. The applicant must provide a report in respect to the progress of the distribution of the donated goods.
12. Welfare organizations need to provide proof that they are registered with the Registrar of Societies.
13. An applicant shall not be granted a rebate for goods sourced internationally at discounted/ bargain-based prices from a supplier, irrespective of the conditions of the discount. The fact that a financial transaction is made to an applicant to the donor disqualifies the applicant to be granted the rebate. Such applicants are referred to BURS for further recourse.
14. Applicants are only assisted if the goods are a 100% donation and with communication from the donor (gift certificate) to substantiate the donation.
15. If a donor donates hard cash to the applicant and acquires the goods required by the applicant, then the applicant is eligible to receive the rebate. On the other hand, if the donor donates hard cash to the applicant for them to acquire the goods themselves then the applicant should buy the required goods locally, otherwise they will not be eligible to apply for the rebate.
16. The donated goods must be kept in a safe place of storage during distribution process. The storage facility should be properly locked up and constructed in such a manner it will provide the maximum protection possible to the donated goods. If the applicant is not in possession of storage facilities, please indicate what alternative arrangements were made for safely storing the goods. BOTC reserves the rights to inspect storage premises for compliance prior to the issuing of the permit.

Documents required for issuance of rebate items under 405.04 are:

1.  Welfare organizations must provide Certificate of Registration with Registrar of Societies
2.  A written undertaking or application letter by the Applicant
3.  ID Copy
4.  Application fee
5.  Bill of Lading/ Waybill/ Consignment Note
6.  Copy of Registration Certificate as a non-profit organization in terms of the Non-Profit Organizations Act (if applicable)
7.  Letter from Donor confirming that the goods are donated for the purposes of cultural, educational, charitable, welfare or youth organizations (Gift Certificate)
8.  Invoice
9.  Copy of Statutory Agreement (if applicable)
10.  Copy of previous permit (if applicable)
11.  The attached declaration must be completed by both the applicant and any other body responsible for distribution of donated goods.
12.  Signed affidavit

