**Specific Conditions for Rebate 412.11**
1. Permits for the rebate item 412.11 are valid per consignment and no extensions will be granted.
2. Applicant must submit written undertaking indicating that the goods are imported for either of the following:
a)relief of distress of persons in case of famine or other national disaster; or
b)under any technical assistance agreement; or
c)In terms of an obligation under multilateral international agreement to which the Botswana is a party.
3. BOTC may satisfy itself as to the accuracy of the information supplied to it by the applicant by conducting verifications at such time and place as it deems necessary, including verification visits at the premises of the applicant that provided the information.
4. BOTC may inform the applicant concerned of the dates of the intended visit, and where such information is provided, the verification will be conducted on those dates.
5.Following a verification visit, BOTC shall compile a verification report indicating
what information was verified and may make same available to the applicant.
6. No payment is required

**Required Application Documents**
1. CE 110
2. BOTC application form
3. Signed affidavit
4. Company Registration number
5. Manufacturing/Trading Licence
6. TIN/VAT Registration Number
7. Bill of Lading
8. Invoice
9. Sanitary and Phytosanitary Certificate (for food products only)
10. Copy of previous permit (if applicable)
11. Written undertaking indicating that the goods are imported for relief of distress of persons in case of famine or other national disaster
**General Conditions**
1.Applicants must acquaint themselves with the provisions of the Customs Act No.33 of 2018 and Excise Act No. 34 of 2018, the Botswana Trade Commission Act,2013 (BOTC Act) and other legislation relating to the importation of goods into the Republic of Botswana.
2.The applicant shall provide BOTC with the required information as per the
relevant application form. Should the space provided in the application form not be sufficient, applicants may use the format of the application form as a guide for the format in which the required information should be submitted. The Guidelines must be read and understood before completing the application forms.
3. Applications must be made well in advance of the shipment of the goods, as rebate permits will not be issued retrospectively. Applicants should allow an issuance period of three (3) working days from date BOTC received a properly documented and duly complete application.
4.Should an application be found to be deficient, it will not be processed further, and the applicant will be informed accordingly. An application will be regarded as deficient if the following is found:
a)The application is not submitted in the correct format;
b)The application has not complied with the guidelines, rules and conditions
c)The requisite information is not submitted; and
d)The application contains conflicting or incorrect information.
5.Applicants who submit deficient applications must re-submit duly completed application forms to replace the deficient application forms, should they wish to proceed.
6.Where there is non-compliance, appropriate action will be taken against the
relevant party in terms of the Customs Act No. 33 of 2018 and Excise Act No. 34 of 2018 and/or BOTC Act. This action may include (without limitation) criminal charge, withdrawal of the permit/s concerned, and it may affect future applications for permits.
7.Should the application be rejected, the applicant will be informed in writing of the decision and the reasons thereof to enable them to seek appropriate recourse.
8.Should the permit holder misplace a permit, the permit holder will be required to submit an application for a re-issue in the form of an affidavit. The application must clearly set out the circumstances giving rise to the loss of the original permit and show good cause or reasons why a substitute permit must be issued. BURS may consider issuing a replacement of the lost original permit provided the above is duly submitted.
9.Permits may not be transferred in any manner by the holder thereof to any other person, or be used to benefit any other person not named in the permit/rebate
10.Requests for amendments of the rebate permit will only be considered when an error was made by BOTC or the issuing authority upon the issuance of a permit. No amendments will be effected in instances where the applicant was responsible for the submission of incorrect information. In such
instances a new application will be required.

